input_file.md, before:

## Introduction Letter

To the Emerald Champion,

I am sending you a series of documents recently taken from a raid on a Kolat hideout. As per your instructions, I am sending them over to you for further analysis and archival. I have not verified the authencitiy of any these documents, so it is up to you to decide whether they are to be trusted. In my personal experience though, the best lies are the half-truths, and it is not difficult to shift through falsehoods when one has enough training.

While I do not question your wisdom in analyzing these documents, I find that when one tries to study a secret conspiracy, one is bound to be disappointed. There are never any truly satisfying answers, only endless questions. Conspirators always tend to find ways of concealing their true intent from the uninitiated. At some point, even the most hardened investigator has to give up the struggle, and accept things at face value.

This does not mean that investigation is pointless. It would be a shame if we abandon our religion simply because we don't know the exact details of the Celestial Order. It also does not mean that the Kolat are invulnerable - surely, they can be countered by other, more loyal secret conspiracies. It does mean that once you step foot into the land of secrets, one will never leave. Be careful.

---Doji Renu, Emerald Magistrate

## History of the Kolat

Renu's Note: I have found three Scrolls, each purporting to provide the true, unaltered history of the Kolat secret society. And yet each Scroll contradicts the other two Scrolls. Decide which of these scrolls (if any) are the truth, and then proceed your investigation from there.

### Scroll of Wisdom

The Kolat originate in a small kingdom far to the east of Rokugan (possibly Pavarre). The exact origins of the Kolat are clouded in mystery, but it is generally believed that the group was founded by shugenja who opposed the worship of supernatural beings. Instead, they believed that humans should rule over everything, including the Celestial Order itself, and treated supernatural beings as tools to further their own agenda.

The Kolat was an underground movement for centuries, and was prone to in-fighting. It wasn't until the Fall of the Kami did the Kolat begin to have a unifying ideology—that of resisting the Rokugani Empire and its leadership, the Haneti dynasty.

The Kolat fought against the Kami for years, but were ultimately defeated and their leadership went into exile. However, they left behind scrolls detailing their subversive techniques. A new generation of dissenters found these scrolls and recreated the Kolat.

This “new” Kolat sees no issue with the Empire, only the Haneti dynasty, and seeks to “reform” the Empire from within. They are constantly afraid of the possibility that the “old” Kolat may return from their exile and reassert their authority.

### Scroll of Power

The Kolat are a shadowy, mysterious presence in Rokugan. Their origins are lost to time and even they don't know where it began. The Kolat have been manipulating history for centuries and will continue to do so long after the Rokugani have turned to dust. Even though the Kolat leadership may not know the true history behind their organization’s foundation, they strongly suspect that the organization was founded by ‘enlightened people’ who wanted to ‘enlighten’ others as well, by any means necessary. Fragments of ancient records talked about  establishing a "Rule of Man", where humanity would become divine entities by displacing the existing divine entities.

The Kolat is not just a group of terrorists or rebels waiting to destroy the Empire. They are a group of Rokugani with radically different philosophies than the rest of the Empire. While the Empire believes in a loose totalitarianism with an emphasis on honor, the Kolat believe in establishing a “shadow government” where they control a few key powerbrokers. The purpose of this “shadow government” is a closely-kept secret, but it’s generally believed that it will usher Rokugan into the new “Age of Mankind” once the Haneti dynasty is overthrown.

The Kolat are not motivated by a desire to see the Empire destroyed. If the Empire is a ship, then the Kolat are trying to steer it in a different direction. Nothing more, nothing less. The Kolat are conspirators and secret-keepers. Everything they do is in the pursuit of the "greater good" of Rokugan, even if that goal isn't easily defined and constantly changes.

The Kolat will not care about your motivations. They do not care about your reasons or your justifications. You are either with them or against them. There is no middle ground. If you have skills and talents and follow orders, they will show mercy to you. If they feel you’re becoming a liability, they will eliminate you. The Kolat are just as willing to work with honorable ronin as they are ruthless bandits and fanatics.

### Scroll of Courage

The term "Kolat" is a Rokugani term meaning "to question". Today, it is a generic term for any anti-Imperial conspiracy who questions the divine rule of the Kami. Their methods differ across the ages, but their structure and ideology is consistent. Each Kolat conspiracy is organized in a hierarchical manner: autonomous cells send delegates to a ruling council that meets in private. And all Kolat conspiracies believe in the same goal: the overthrow of the Haneti dynasty and the establishment of the "Rule of Man". How they interpret that goal, though, can differ.

Though it is a very simple matter for an Emerald Magistrate to purge a single Kolat conspiracy, always another one appears elsewhere in the empire. It is impossible to truly destroy an idea, though you can limit its spread and prevent it from causing too much mischief.

Some Kolats, an attempt to boost their prestige, has written down secret histories linking their efforts to more ancient Kolats, with some cells tracing their ancestry back to the original Kolats who fought against the Kami  in the early days of the Rokugani Empire. It is unclear how accurate these secret histories are.

Though a few Kolats are hardened rebels that engage violent terrorism and rabble-rousing, most Kolats are centralized around radical philosophers who are more likely to talk about destroying the Haneti than actually do anything about it. Even some of the more well-connected Kolats, those that actually could destroy the Haneti dynasty, don't want to do the deed, fearing the consequences. Instead, these Kolats subtly seek to control the Empire from behind the scenes, for their own secretive purposes.

Disgruntled samurai can join a Kolat for many reasons. Some do so because they see it as a stepping stool for personal power. Some do it because they were blackmailed into it, or because their ancestors belonged to it - so they have to uphold tradition. Some do so because they see injustice in the status quo and want to change. And still some do so because they want to be part of the Rokugani counterculture and see subversion as "cool" or exciting.

## Kolat Operating Manual

Renu's Note: This manual (of unknown authorship) appears to provide valuable information about how the Kolat is organized, and is thus a valuable asset for Imperial investigators trying to take this entity down. It is notably agnostic about the Kolat's history though.

### Kolat Organization

The nature of the Kolat means that they have no conventional territory under their direct control. Instead, the Kolat have established a complex web of secret cells that operate independently of one another. Each cell is devoted to a specific task, with little knowledge of the wider organization.

The only thing that remains constant is the group's willingness to resort to violence and terror to achieve their goals. From simple sabotage designed to wear down the Empire's resources to the funding of pirate kings who stir up trouble along Rokugani waters, the Kolat have been quietly making their presence known for quite some time.

Most of the cells are willing to wait patiently for the right opportunity to arise, but there are also "sleepers," who are fully aware of their Kolat allegiance, but have not yet been ordered to take any action. These individuals work day jobs, and can potentially go for years or even decades without taking part in any violence. Nonetheless, they're always ready to strike if the order is given.

The most important members of the Kolat are its so-called "Kolat Masters". The identities of these individuals are known only to other Kolat Masters and high-ranking members of the order, and even then, only on a need-to-know basis. The Kolat Masters are the leaders and instigators of the order, and it is they who decide the Kolat’s future schemes.

### Kolat Agenda

The Kolat's agenda is not to destroy the Empire, but to "liberate" Rokugan from what they see as an oppressive monarchy. The Kolat consist of educated and dedicated monks, shugenja, couriters, and other noble samurai who are fully aware of the benefits of living within the Empire, but dislike its religious attitudes and traditions. They want to create a secular dictatorship ruled by intellectuals, and disdain those who do not share their cold pragmatism.

### Main Problems

The Kolat have made great strides in their attempts to bring down the Empire, but have found themselves in a difficult position. The more they attempt to harm the Empire, the more attention they draw to themselves and the more quickly the Empire responds, eliminating the Kolat's advantage. Without the element of surprise, they fear the Empire might be able to root out their conspiracy entirely. Urban chaos, however, will distract the Empire and allow the conspiracy to gather strength and draw attention away from the more rural areas, where the conspiracy can grow back safely.

The Kolat knows that Imperial forces are likely to strike at them, despite their best attempts at avoiding detection. Therefore, they need to be able to defend themselves against such attacks. To this end, they're attempting to train and arm a specialized group of warriors. Unfortunately, this plan isn't going very well, as they're having a tough time finding people to fit their stringent criteria and putting them through the training.

### What If The Kolat Wins?
If the Kolat do succeed in overthrowing the Haneti dynasty and taking over, they will limit the influence of the Major Clans and rule as cruel tyrants. The Kolat's original ideology of human potential will be lost, in favor of pure greed. Intellectualism is equated to superiority, and they rule the dumb masses with the help of a powerful military.

However, they will tolerate the Crab clan, due to their usefulness in combating the Shadowlands, and will even provide them with financial and military support. Hypocritically, the Kolat will also research how to use maho “safely”, since it is considered more “reliable” and “effective” when compared to praying to the fickle Kami and fortunes. They might even attempt to purify the Shadowlands Taint using maho, so confident they are in their intellectual talents.

## Adventure Seeds (OOC)

### Rising Shadows

Hook: Assassins linked to the Kolat attempt a daring raid against the Emperor and his bodyguards. The players can fight the Kolat assassins off, but the Emperor himself gets lost in the shuffle and is presumed dead. The Emperor's body has not been found though, so there is still some doubt.

Rising Action: Rokugan falls into a brief but immediate three-way power struggle. The Imperial Legions and the Emperor's advisors are the first to stake their claim, but General Hitomi of the Shadow Guard (an anti-Kolat paramilitary organization) declares herself the true leader of Rokugan. The Emperor's death has not been confirmed, merely his disappearance. She claims she saw him swept away by the Kolat during the battle, and it is her sacred duty as the leader of the Shadow Guard to find him.

Climax: General Hitomi turns out to have secret connections to the Kolat, having betrayed her oath to the Emperor in return for promises of wealth and power. If the players interrogate Hitomi, they find out that the Emperor is still alive, kept as a hostage. The Kolat plan to hand over the Emperor over to the winning faction in return for future favors. It is up to the players to decide whether to oppose this plot or to tolerate it.

### Lies in Wait

Hook: A small village is found completely slaughtered, with strange symbols painted in blood upon the walls.

Rising Action: The symbols are identified as an old symbol for death, the one used by the Kolat to demonstrate that they want to send a message against their foes. The question remains not "who did it," but "why was this done?" The signal was clear: the Kolat can strike anywhere. The citizens are gripped by fear.

Climax: The characters discover the culprits, and how they're connected to the Kolat. The Kolat hopes that they can terrorize citizens into helping their cause. Therefore, it will not be enough to bring the culprits to justice...one must also prove to the masses that the Kolat cannot conduct any more terror operations.

### Kolat's Schemes

Hook: A popular, well-respected and high-ranking shukke (advisor) to the Emperor suddenly grows ill and dies. This man was very astute, and the Emperor relied on his advice heavily. The Empire begins to fall into disarray as the government attempts to find a suitable successor while trying to deal with problems both external and internal.

Rising Action: The Emperor has no living siblings, and his children are young and have not yet shown the desired traits of personal discipline and wisdom. The government is paralyzed and the samurai aristocracy are divided in their support for possible successors. The Emperor himself is too distraught over the loss of his advisor and companion to make any decision.

Climax: The players learn that the high-ranking shukke was actually a high-ranking Kolat member that was poisoned by another high-ranking Kolat member in a brutal power struggle. If the players investigate further, they find out that the shukke’s murderer is a close friend of the Emperor's children. Revealing this fact would jeopardize the legitimacy of the Haneti dynasty outright, and possibly play right into the Kolat’s hands.

### Fealty and Filial Duty

Hook: The Empire is suffering from a series of poor harvests, and many peasants face starvation. The daimyō of the powerful and warlike Akao province wish to secede from the Empire, as they see that they will be better off if they no longer have to pay their grain taxes to the central government. The peasants of Akao are fiercely loyal to their daimyō, who is a popular ruler, and are willing to fight in order to secede. The daimyō is attempting to negotiate a ‘peaceful secession’ from the Empire, but the Emperor refuses to talk to a ‘rebellious lord’.

Rising Action: The peasants of Akao begin a series of riots and protests in the streets of the major cities within the province. The daimyō efuses to act, and claims that it is simply the will of the people, and there is nothing he can do. Of course, he’s covertly sponsoring said riots and protests, hoping to purge his political enemies in the process. In the meantime, the peasants of other, less warlike provinces are suffering due to the poor harvest, and begin to migrate to Akao in order to survive. This puts an enormous burden on the resources of the already overburdened Akao province.

Climax: The daimyō finally gives up on negotiation and unilaterally declares independence from the Empire. The peasants begin building barricades in the streets and setting up guillotines in the public squares. The daimyō 's palace is heavily fortified, and he declares that he will fight to the last man. The PCs are a group of elite agents handpicked by the Emperor to deal with this situation. They have extensive combat training as well as high-level diplomatic skills. They are sent to the province to either end the secession crisis through diplomacy or military force. When they get to Akao though, the PCs find out the true reason for the daimyō’s rebellion against the Empire. The daimyō secretly hates the Empire because he feels that it has been subverted by the Kolat. He wants to create a new regime, free from Kolat influence, to better protect Rokugani traditions, and if that means going against the Emperor and dying ignobly as a rebel, so be it.

### The Airs of Defiance

Hook: A PC’s daimyō is caught in the process of speaking out or taking some action against the government or society at large. This can be anything from refusing to assist in building a new aqueduct to openly criticizing the government to his fellows.

Rising Action: In a world in which even the slightest criticism or complaint is frowned upon, such an act can only come from a heart filled with true conviction… or from a place of treasonous intent. Which is it?  Even if the individual meant no harm, his words stirred something in others besides his immediate circle. Was this a lone madman's cry in the wilderness or the spark to set afire a dry field? The characters must decide whether or not to report their acquaintance to the nearest magistrate, or if a more personal intervention might be needed.

Climax: If the players appeal to the nearest magistrate, they are bound to be disappointed. The magistrate is far from lenient, and the daimyō finds himself on the business end of a noose. If the players try to investigate privately, they will have to do so without getting noticed by the daimyō. If *he* gets too paranoid, he will report the players to the magistrates.

Was his intent to bring down the government, or was his outburst an impulsive cry for attention? Most likely, a mixture of both. It is possible that the daimyō himself was a Kolat agent who unfortunately was not adept enough to engage in conspiratorial activity. It is also possible that the Kolat intentionally sought to provoke the daimyō into conducting the seditious activity, in the hopes of getting him killed and gaining power over his former territory.

## GM Advice (OOC)

The Kolat are interesting as strong recurring villains that the players can deal with on a regular basis.

They can also provoke internal conflict within the players as well, even though they are a terrorist organization, or perhaps especially because they are a terrorist organization. Many of the Kolat's agents really believe in their cause and don't want to see the Empire fall - they just want to take it over. There are also those who are dedicated to the organization first and are willing to do whatever it takes to further the Kolat's cause, even if it means endangering the Empire and the people in it.

Can they trust anyone who openly associates with the Kolat? Does the end justify the means? Are there other, less violent, ways of changing the status quo? And is their shady contact really loyal to the Kolat, or is he an agent of the Haneti dynasty trying to test their loyalty? These are all questions that can cause great internal conflict within the party, especially since they may need to turn to the Kolat for help on an occasional basis.

Of course, the Kolat can offer tangible benefits as well. You are going to have to deal with their constant demands though. Is that a price your players are willing to pay?

Commit message:

Change fluff for how Doji Renu acquired these documents

input_file.md, after:

## Introduction Letter

To the Emerald Champion,

I am sending you a series of documents I have acquired during my research on the Kolat secret society. As per your instructions, I am sending them over to you for further analysis and archival. I have not verified the authencitiy of any these documents, so it is up to you to decide whether they are to be trusted. In my personal experience though, the best lies are the half-truths, and it is not difficult to shift through falsehoods when one has enough training.

While I do not question your wisdom in analyzing these documents, I find that when one tries to study a secret conspiracy, one is bound to be disappointed. There are never any truly satisfying answers, only endless questions. Conspirators always tend to find ways of concealing their true intent from the uninitiated. At some point, even the most hardened investigator has to give up the struggle, and accept things at face value.

This does not mean that investigation is pointless. It would be a shame if we abandon our religion simply because we don't know the exact details of the Celestial Order. It also does not mean that the Kolat are invulnerable - surely, they can be countered by other, more loyal secret conspiracies. It does mean that once you step foot into the land of secrets, one will never leave. Be careful.

---Doji Renu, Emerald Magistrate

## History of the Kolat

Renu's Note: I have found three Scrolls, each purporting to provide the true, unaltered history of the Kolat secret society. And yet each Scroll contradicts the other two Scrolls. Decide which of these scrolls (if any) are the truth, and then proceed your investigation from there.

### Scroll of Wisdom

The Kolat originate in a small kingdom far to the east of Rokugan (possibly Pavarre). The exact origins of the Kolat are clouded in mystery, but it is generally believed that the group was founded by shugenja who opposed the worship of supernatural beings. Instead, they believed that humans should rule over everything, including the Celestial Order itself, and treated supernatural beings as tools to further their own agenda.

The Kolat was an underground movement for centuries, and was prone to in-fighting. It wasn't until the Fall of the Kami did the Kolat begin to have a unifying ideology—that of resisting the Rokugani Empire and its leadership, the Haneti dynasty.

The Kolat fought against the Kami for years, but were ultimately defeated and their leadership went into exile. However, they left behind scrolls detailing their subversive techniques. A new generation of dissenters found these scrolls and recreated the Kolat.

This “new” Kolat sees no issue with the Empire, only the Haneti dynasty, and seeks to “reform” the Empire from within. They are constantly afraid of the possibility that the “old” Kolat may return from their exile and reassert their authority.

### Scroll of Power

The Kolat are a shadowy, mysterious presence in Rokugan. Their origins are lost to time and even they don't know where it began. The Kolat have been manipulating history for centuries and will continue to do so long after the Rokugani have turned to dust. Even though the Kolat leadership may not know the true history behind their organization’s foundation, they strongly suspect that the organization was founded by ‘enlightened people’ who wanted to ‘enlighten’ others as well, by any means necessary. Fragments of ancient records talked about  establishing a "Rule of Man", where humanity would become divine entities by displacing the existing divine entities.

The Kolat is not just a group of terrorists or rebels waiting to destroy the Empire. They are a group of Rokugani with radically different philosophies than the rest of the Empire. While the Empire believes in a loose totalitarianism with an emphasis on honor, the Kolat believe in establishing a “shadow government” where they control a few key powerbrokers. The purpose of this “shadow government” is a closely-kept secret, but it’s generally believed that it will usher Rokugan into the new “Age of Mankind” once the Haneti dynasty is overthrown.

The Kolat are not motivated by a desire to see the Empire destroyed. If the Empire is a ship, then the Kolat are trying to steer it in a different direction. Nothing more, nothing less. The Kolat are conspirators and secret-keepers. Everything they do is in the pursuit of the "greater good" of Rokugan, even if that goal isn't easily defined and constantly changes.

The Kolat will not care about your motivations. They do not care about your reasons or your justifications. You are either with them or against them. There is no middle ground. If you have skills and talents and follow orders, they will show mercy to you. If they feel you’re becoming a liability, they will eliminate you. The Kolat are just as willing to work with honorable ronin as they are ruthless bandits and fanatics.

### Scroll of Courage

The term "Kolat" is a Rokugani term meaning "to question". Today, it is a generic term for any anti-Imperial conspiracy who questions the divine rule of the Kami. Their methods differ across the ages, but their structure and ideology is consistent. Each Kolat conspiracy is organized in a hierarchical manner: autonomous cells send delegates to a ruling council that meets in private. And all Kolat conspiracies believe in the same goal: the overthrow of the Haneti dynasty and the establishment of the "Rule of Man". How they interpret that goal, though, can differ.

Though it is a very simple matter for an Emerald Magistrate to purge a single Kolat conspiracy, always another one appears elsewhere in the empire. It is impossible to truly destroy an idea, though you can limit its spread and prevent it from causing too much mischief.

Some Kolats, an attempt to boost their prestige, has written down secret histories linking their efforts to more ancient Kolats, with some cells tracing their ancestry back to the original Kolats who fought against the Kami  in the early days of the Rokugani Empire. It is unclear how accurate these secret histories are.

Though a few Kolats are hardened rebels that engage violent terrorism and rabble-rousing, most Kolats are centralized around radical philosophers who are more likely to talk about destroying the Haneti than actually do anything about it. Even some of the more well-connected Kolats, those that actually could destroy the Haneti dynasty, don't want to do the deed, fearing the consequences. Instead, these Kolats subtly seek to control the Empire from behind the scenes, for their own secretive purposes.

Disgruntled samurai can join a Kolat for many reasons. Some do so because they see it as a stepping stool for personal power. Some do it because they were blackmailed into it, or because their ancestors belonged to it - so they have to uphold tradition. Some do so because they see injustice in the status quo and want to change. And still some do so because they want to be part of the Rokugani counterculture and see subversion as "cool" or exciting.

## Kolat Operating Manual

Renu's Note: This manual (of unknown authorship) appears to provide valuable information about how the Kolat is organized, and is thus a valuable asset for Imperial investigators trying to take this entity down. It is notably agnostic about the Kolat's history though.

### Kolat Organization

The nature of the Kolat means that they have no conventional territory under their direct control. Instead, the Kolat have established a complex web of secret cells that operate independently of one another. Each cell is devoted to a specific task, with little knowledge of the wider organization.

The only thing that remains constant is the group's willingness to resort to violence and terror to achieve their goals. From simple sabotage designed to wear down the Empire's resources to the funding of pirate kings who stir up trouble along Rokugani waters, the Kolat have been quietly making their presence known for quite some time.

Most of the cells are willing to wait patiently for the right opportunity to arise, but there are also "sleepers," who are fully aware of their Kolat allegiance, but have not yet been ordered to take any action. These individuals work day jobs, and can potentially go for years or even decades without taking part in any violence. Nonetheless, they're always ready to strike if the order is given.

The most important members of the Kolat are its so-called "Kolat Masters". The identities of these individuals are known only to other Kolat Masters and high-ranking members of the order, and even then, only on a need-to-know basis. The Kolat Masters are the leaders and instigators of the order, and it is they who decide the Kolat’s future schemes.

### Kolat Agenda

The Kolat's agenda is not to destroy the Empire, but to "liberate" Rokugan from what they see as an oppressive monarchy. The Kolat consist of educated and dedicated monks, shugenja, couriters, and other noble samurai who are fully aware of the benefits of living within the Empire, but dislike its religious attitudes and traditions. They want to create a secular dictatorship ruled by intellectuals, and disdain those who do not share their cold pragmatism.

### Main Problems

The Kolat have made great strides in their attempts to bring down the Empire, but have found themselves in a difficult position. The more they attempt to harm the Empire, the more attention they draw to themselves and the more quickly the Empire responds, eliminating the Kolat's advantage. Without the element of surprise, they fear the Empire might be able to root out their conspiracy entirely. Urban chaos, however, will distract the Empire and allow the conspiracy to gather strength and draw attention away from the more rural areas, where the conspiracy can grow back safely.

The Kolat knows that Imperial forces are likely to strike at them, despite their best attempts at avoiding detection. Therefore, they need to be able to defend themselves against such attacks. To this end, they're attempting to train and arm a specialized group of warriors. Unfortunately, this plan isn't going very well, as they're having a tough time finding people to fit their stringent criteria and putting them through the training.

### What If The Kolat Wins?
If the Kolat do succeed in overthrowing the Haneti dynasty and taking over, they will limit the influence of the Major Clans and rule as cruel tyrants. The Kolat's original ideology of human potential will be lost, in favor of pure greed. Intellectualism is equated to superiority, and they rule the dumb masses with the help of a powerful military.

However, they will tolerate the Crab clan, due to their usefulness in combating the Shadowlands, and will even provide them with financial and military support. Hypocritically, the Kolat will also research how to use maho “safely”, since it is considered more “reliable” and “effective” when compared to praying to the fickle Kami and fortunes. They might even attempt to purify the Shadowlands Taint using maho, so confident they are in their intellectual talents.

## Adventure Seeds (OOC)

### Rising Shadows

Hook: Assassins linked to the Kolat attempt a daring raid against the Emperor and his bodyguards. The players can fight the Kolat assassins off, but the Emperor himself gets lost in the shuffle and is presumed dead. The Emperor's body has not been found though, so there is still some doubt.

Rising Action: Rokugan falls into a brief but immediate three-way power struggle. The Imperial Legions and the Emperor's advisors are the first to stake their claim, but General Hitomi of the Shadow Guard (an anti-Kolat paramilitary organization) declares herself the true leader of Rokugan. The Emperor's death has not been confirmed, merely his disappearance. She claims she saw him swept away by the Kolat during the battle, and it is her sacred duty as the leader of the Shadow Guard to find him.

Climax: General Hitomi turns out to have secret connections to the Kolat, having betrayed her oath to the Emperor in return for promises of wealth and power. If the players interrogate Hitomi, they find out that the Emperor is still alive, kept as a hostage. The Kolat plan to hand over the Emperor over to the winning faction in return for future favors. It is up to the players to decide whether to oppose this plot or to tolerate it.

### Lies in Wait

Hook: A small village is found completely slaughtered, with strange symbols painted in blood upon the walls.

Rising Action: The symbols are identified as an old symbol for death, the one used by the Kolat to demonstrate that they want to send a message against their foes. The question remains not "who did it," but "why was this done?" The signal was clear: the Kolat can strike anywhere. The citizens are gripped by fear.

Climax: The characters discover the culprits, and how they're connected to the Kolat. The Kolat hopes that they can terrorize citizens into helping their cause. Therefore, it will not be enough to bring the culprits to justice...one must also prove to the masses that the Kolat cannot conduct any more terror operations.

### Kolat's Schemes

Hook: A popular, well-respected and high-ranking shukke (advisor) to the Emperor suddenly grows ill and dies. This man was very astute, and the Emperor relied on his advice heavily. The Empire begins to fall into disarray as the government attempts to find a suitable successor while trying to deal with problems both external and internal.

Rising Action: The Emperor has no living siblings, and his children are young and have not yet shown the desired traits of personal discipline and wisdom. The government is paralyzed and the samurai aristocracy are divided in their support for possible successors. The Emperor himself is too distraught over the loss of his advisor and companion to make any decision.

Climax: The players learn that the high-ranking shukke was actually a high-ranking Kolat member that was poisoned by another high-ranking Kolat member in a brutal power struggle. If the players investigate further, they find out that the shukke’s murderer is a close friend of the Emperor's children. Revealing this fact would jeopardize the legitimacy of the Haneti dynasty outright, and possibly play right into the Kolat’s hands.

### Fealty and Filial Duty

Hook: The Empire is suffering from a series of poor harvests, and many peasants face starvation. The daimyō of the powerful and warlike Akao province wish to secede from the Empire, as they see that they will be better off if they no longer have to pay their grain taxes to the central government. The peasants of Akao are fiercely loyal to their daimyō, who is a popular ruler, and are willing to fight in order to secede. The daimyō is attempting to negotiate a ‘peaceful secession’ from the Empire, but the Emperor refuses to talk to a ‘rebellious lord’.

Rising Action: The peasants of Akao begin a series of riots and protests in the streets of the major cities within the province. The daimyō efuses to act, and claims that it is simply the will of the people, and there is nothing he can do. Of course, he’s covertly sponsoring said riots and protests, hoping to purge his political enemies in the process. In the meantime, the peasants of other, less warlike provinces are suffering due to the poor harvest, and begin to migrate to Akao in order to survive. This puts an enormous burden on the resources of the already overburdened Akao province.

Climax: The daimyō finally gives up on negotiation and unilaterally declares independence from the Empire. The peasants begin building barricades in the streets and setting up guillotines in the public squares. The daimyō 's palace is heavily fortified, and he declares that he will fight to the last man. The PCs are a group of elite agents handpicked by the Emperor to deal with this situation. They have extensive combat training as well as high-level diplomatic skills. They are sent to the province to either end the secession crisis through diplomacy or military force. When they get to Akao though, the PCs find out the true reason for the daimyō’s rebellion against the Empire. The daimyō secretly hates the Empire because he feels that it has been subverted by the Kolat. He wants to create a new regime, free from Kolat influence, to better protect Rokugani traditions, and if that means going against the Emperor and dying ignobly as a rebel, so be it.

### The Airs of Defiance

Hook: A PC’s daimyō is caught in the process of speaking out or taking some action against the government or society at large. This can be anything from refusing to assist in building a new aqueduct to openly criticizing the government to his fellows.

Rising Action: In a world in which even the slightest criticism or complaint is frowned upon, such an act can only come from a heart filled with true conviction… or from a place of treasonous intent. Which is it?  Even if the individual meant no harm, his words stirred something in others besides his immediate circle. Was this a lone madman's cry in the wilderness or the spark to set afire a dry field? The characters must decide whether or not to report their acquaintance to the nearest magistrate, or if a more personal intervention might be needed.

Climax: If the players appeal to the nearest magistrate, they are bound to be disappointed. The magistrate is far from lenient, and the daimyō finds himself on the business end of a noose. If the players try to investigate privately, they will have to do so without getting noticed by the daimyō. If *he* gets too paranoid, he will report the players to the magistrates.

Was his intent to bring down the government, or was his outburst an impulsive cry for attention? Most likely, a mixture of both. It is possible that the daimyō himself was a Kolat agent who unfortunately was not adept enough to engage in conspiratorial activity. It is also possible that the Kolat intentionally sought to provoke the daimyō into conducting the seditious activity, in the hopes of getting him killed and gaining power over his former territory.

## GM Advice (OOC)

The Kolat are interesting as strong recurring villains that the players can deal with on a regular basis.

They can also provoke internal conflict within the players as well, even though they are a terrorist organization, or perhaps especially because they are a terrorist organization. Many of the Kolat's agents really believe in their cause and don't want to see the Empire fall - they just want to take it over. There are also those who are dedicated to the organization first and are willing to do whatever it takes to further the Kolat's cause, even if it means endangering the Empire and the people in it.

Can they trust anyone who openly associates with the Kolat? Does the end justify the means? Are there other, less violent, ways of changing the status quo? And is their shady contact really loyal to the Kolat, or is he an agent of the Haneti dynasty trying to test their loyalty? These are all questions that can cause great internal conflict within the party, especially since they may need to turn to the Kolat for help on an occasional basis.

Of course, the Kolat can offer tangible benefits as well. You are going to have to deal with their constant demands though. Is that a price your players are willing to pay?
